# [12. Integer to Roman](https://leetcode.com/problems/integer-to-roman/)


## Problem

Roman numerals are represented by seven different symbols: `I`, `V`, `X`, `L`, `C`, `D` and `M`.

```
Symbol       Value
I             1
V             5
X             10
L             50
C             100
D             500
M             1000
```

For example, `2` is written as `II` in Roman numeral, just two one's added together. `12` is written as `XII`, which is simply `X + II`. The number `27` is written as `XXVII`, which is `XX + V + II`.

Roman numerals are usually written largest to smallest from left to right. However, the numeral for four is not `IIII`. Instead, the number four is written as `IV`. Because the one is before the five we subtract it making four. The same principle applies to the number nine, which is written as `IX`. There are six instances where subtraction is used:

- `I` can be placed before `V` (5) and `X` (10) to make 4 and 9.
- `X` can be placed before `L` (50) and `C` (100) to make 40 and 90.
- `C` can be placed before `D` (500) and `M` (1000) to make 400 and 900.

Given an integer, convert it to a roman numeral.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: num = 3
Output: "III"
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: num = 4
Output: "IV"
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: num = 9
Output: "IX"
```

**Example 4:**

```
Input: num = 58
Output: "LVIII"
Explanation: L = 50, V = 5, III = 3.
```

**Example 5:**

```
Input: num = 1994
Output: "MCMXCIV"
Explanation: M = 1000, CM = 900, XC = 90 and IV = 4.
```

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= num <= 3999`

## Problem Summary

Normally, in Roman numerals, smaller numbers are placed to the right of larger numbers. However, there are special cases; for example, 4 is not written as IIII, but as IV. The number 1 is on the left of the number 5, so the represented value is equal to the larger number 5 minus the smaller number 1, resulting in 4. Similarly, the number 9 is represented as IX. This special rule applies only to the following six cases:

- I can be placed to the left of V (5) and X (10) to represent 4 and 9.
- X can be placed to the left of L (50) and C (100) to represent 40 and 90.
- C can be placed to the left of D (500) and M (1000) to represent 400 and 900.

Given an integer, convert it to a Roman numeral. The input is guaranteed to be within the range from 1 to 3999.

## Solution Approach

- According to the problem statement, larger numbers should be chosen first, so the solution uses a greedy algorithm. Put the Roman numerals within the range 1-3999 into an array from largest to smallest, then choose from beginning to end to convert the integer into a Roman numeral.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

func intToRoman(num int) string {
	values := []int{1000, 900, 500, 400, 100, 90, 50, 40, 10, 9, 5, 4, 1}
	symbols := []string{"M", "CM", "D", "CD", "C", "XC", "L", "XL", "X", "IX", "V", "IV", "I"}
	res, i := "", 0
	for num != 0 {
		for values[i] > num {
			i++
		}
		num -= values[i]
		res += symbols[i]
	}
	return res
}
```
