# [13. Roman to Integer](https://leetcode.com/problems/roman-to-integer/)


## Problem

Roman numerals are represented by seven different symbols: `I`, `V`, `X`, `L`, `C`, `D` and `M`.

```
Symbol       Value
I             1
V             5
X             10
L             50
C             100
D             500
M             1000
```

For example, two is written as `II` in Roman numeral, just two one's added together. Twelve is written as, `XII`, which is simply `X` + `II`. The number twenty seven is written as `XXVII`, which is `XX` + `V` + `II`.

Roman numerals are usually written largest to smallest from left to right. However, the numeral for four is not `IIII`. Instead, the number four is written as `IV`. Because the one is before the five we subtract it making four. The same principle applies to the number nine, which is written as `IX`. There are six instances where subtraction is used:

- `I` can be placed before `V` (5) and `X` (10) to make 4 and 9.
- `X` can be placed before `L` (50) and `C` (100) to make 40 and 90.
- `C` can be placed before `D` (500) and `M` (1000) to make 400 and 900.

Given a roman numeral, convert it to an integer. Input is guaranteed to be within the range from 1 to 3999.

**Example 1**:

```
Input: "III"
Output: 3
```

**Example 2**:

```
Input: "IV"
Output: 4
```

**Example 3**:

```
Input: "IX"
Output: 9
```

**Example 4**:

```
Input: "LVIII"
Output: 58
Explanation: L = 50, V= 5, III = 3.
```

**Example 5**:

```
Input: "MCMXCIV"
Output: 1994
Explanation: M = 1000, CM = 900, XC = 90 and IV = 4.
```

## Problem Summary

Roman numerals contain the following seven characters: I， V， X， L，C，D and M。

```go

Character          Value
I             1
V             5
X             10
L             50
C             100
D             500
M             1000

```

For example， Roman numeral 2 is written as II ，which is two adjacent 1。12 is written as XII ，which is X + II 。 27 is written as  XXVII, which is XX + V + II 。

Under normal circumstances，smaller numbers in Roman numerals are on the right of larger numbers。But there are also special cases，for example 4 is not written as IIII，but as IV。The number 1 is on the left of the number 5，the represented number equals the value 4 obtained by subtracting the smaller number 1 from the larger number 5 。Similarly，the number 9 is represented as IX。This special rule only applies to the following six cases：

- I can be placed to the left of V (5) and X (10)，to represent 4 and 9。
- X can be placed to the left of L (50) and C (100)，to represent 40 and 90。 
- C can be placed to the left of D (500) and M (1000)，to represent 400 and 900。

Given a Roman numeral，convert it to an integer。The input is guaranteed to be within the range from 1 to 3999。

## Solution Approach

- Given a Roman numeral，convert it to an integer。The input is guaranteed to be within the range from 1 to 3999。
- Simple problem。According to the character values of Roman numerals in the problem，just calculate the decimal number corresponding to the Roman numeral。

## Code

```go

package leetcode

var roman = map[string]int{
	"I": 1,
	"V": 5,
	"X": 10,
	"L": 50,
	"C": 100,
	"D": 500,
	"M": 1000,
}

func romanToInt(s string) int {
	if s == "" {
		return 0
	}
	num, lastint, total := 0, 0, 0
	for i := 0; i < len(s); i++ {
		char := s[len(s)-(i+1) : len(s)-i]
		num = roman[char]
		if num < lastint {
			total = total - num
		} else {
			total = total + num
		}
		lastint = num
	}
	return total
}

```
