# [306. Additive Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/additive-number/)


## Problem

Additive number is a string whose digits can form additive sequence.

A valid additive sequence should contain **at least** three numbers. Except for the first two numbers, each subsequent number in the sequence must be the sum of the preceding two.

Given a string containing only digits `'0'-'9'`, write a function to determine if it's an additive number.

**Note**: Numbers in the additive sequence **cannot** have leading zeros, so sequence `1, 2, 03` or `1, 02, 3` is invalid.

**Example 1**:

    Input: "112358"
    Output: true 
    Explanation: The digits can form an additive sequence: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8. 
                 1 + 1 = 2, 1 + 2 = 3, 2 + 3 = 5, 3 + 5 = 8

**Example 2**:

    Input: "199100199"
    Output: true 
    Explanation: The additive sequence is: 1, 99, 100, 199. 
                 1 + 99 = 100, 99 + 100 = 199

**Follow up**:How would you handle overflow for very large input integers?


## Problem Summary

An additive number is a string whose digits can form an additive sequence. A valid additive sequence must contain at least 3 numbers. Except for the first two numbers, every other number in the string must be equal to the sum of the two numbers before it. Given a string containing only digits '0'-'9', write an algorithm to determine whether the given input is an additive number. Note: Numbers in the additive sequence will not start with 0, so cases like 1, 2, 03 or 1, 02, 3 will not occur.


## Solution Approach

- Determine whether the given string is a string in the form of a Fibonacci sequence.
- Since each check needs to add 2 numbers, during DFS traversal we need to maintain the boundaries of 2 numbers, `firstEnd` and `secondEnd`; the starting position of the sum of the two numbers is `secondEnd + 1`. Each time `firstEnd` and `secondEnd` are moved, we need to check `strings.HasPrefix(num[secondEnd + 1:], strconv.Itoa(x1 + x2))`, that is, whether the following string starts with the sum.
- If the starting digit of the first number is 0, or the starting digit of the second number is 0, both are invalid exceptional cases and should directly return false.



## Code

```go

package leetcode

import (
	"strconv"
	"strings"
)

// This function controls various combinations as starting points
func isAdditiveNumber(num string) bool {
	if len(num) < 3 {
		return false
	}
	for firstEnd := 0; firstEnd < len(num)/2; firstEnd++ {
		if num[0] == '0' && firstEnd > 0 {
			break
		}
		first, _ := strconv.Atoi(num[:firstEnd+1])
		for secondEnd := firstEnd + 1; max(firstEnd, secondEnd-firstEnd) <= len(num)-secondEnd; secondEnd++ {
			if num[firstEnd+1] == '0' && secondEnd-firstEnd > 1 {
				break
			}
			second, _ := strconv.Atoi(num[firstEnd+1 : secondEnd+1])
			if recursiveCheck(num, first, second, secondEnd+1) {
				return true
			}
		}
	}
	return false
}

//Propagate for rest of the string
func recursiveCheck(num string, x1 int, x2 int, left int) bool {
	if left == len(num) {
		return true
	}
	if strings.HasPrefix(num[left:], strconv.Itoa(x1+x2)) {
		return recursiveCheck(num, x2, x1+x2, left+len(strconv.Itoa(x1+x2)))
	}
	return false
}

```
