# [318. Maximum Product of Word Lengths](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-product-of-word-lengths/)


## Problem

Given a string array `words`, find the maximum value of `length(word[i]) * length(word[j])` where the two words do not share common letters. You may assume that each word will contain only lower case letters. If no such two words exist, return 0.

**Example 1**:

    Input: ["abcw","baz","foo","bar","xtfn","abcdef"]
    Output: 16 
    Explanation: The two words can be "abcw", "xtfn".

**Example 2**:

    Input: ["a","ab","abc","d","cd","bcd","abcd"]
    Output: 4 
    Explanation: The two words can be "ab", "cd".

**Example 3**:

    Input: ["a","aa","aaa","aaaa"]
    Output: 0 
    Explanation: No such pair of words.



## Problem Statement

Given a string array words, find the maximum value of length(word[i]) * length(word[j]), where these two words do not contain any common letters. You may assume that each word contains only lowercase letters. If no such two words exist, return 0.


## Solution Approach

- Find 2 strings in the string array that have no common characters, and the product of the lengths of these two strings must be the largest. Find this maximum product.
- Here we need to use the property of the bitwise `&` operation. If `X & Y = 0`, it means X and Y are completely different. Therefore, we encode all strings into binary numbers and perform the `&` operation to identify strings with no common characters, then dynamically maintain the maximum value of the length product. The rule for encoding a string into a binary number is relatively simple: for each character, calculate its distance from 'a', and shift 1 left by that many bits according to this distance.

```c
    a 1->1  
    b 2->10  
    c 4->100  
    ab 3->11  
    ac 5->101  
    abc 7->111  
    az 33554433->10000000000000000000000001  
```


## Code

```go

package leetcode

func maxProduct318(words []string) int {
	if words == nil || len(words) == 0 {
		return 0
	}
	length, value, maxProduct := len(words), make([]int, len(words)), 0
	for i := 0; i < length; i++ {
		tmp := words[i]
		value[i] = 0
		for j := 0; j < len(tmp); j++ {
			value[i] |= 1 << (tmp[j] - 'a')
		}
	}
	for i := 0; i < length; i++ {
		for j := i + 1; j < length; j++ {
			if (value[i]&value[j]) == 0 && (len(words[i])*len(words[j]) > maxProduct) {
				maxProduct = len(words[i]) * len(words[j])
			}
		}
	}
	return maxProduct
}

```
