# [2037. Minimum Number of Moves to Seat Everyone](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-moves-to-seat-everyone/)

## Problem

There are n seats and n students in a room. You are given an array seats of length n, where seats[i] is the position of the ith seat. You are also given the array students of length n, where students[j] is the position of the jth student.

You may perform the following move any number of times:

- Increase or decrease the position of the ith student by 1 (i.e., moving the ith student from position x to x + 1 or x - 1)

Return the minimum number of moves required to move each student to a seat such that no two students are in the same seat.

Note that there may be multiple seats or students in the same position at the beginning.

**Example 1:**

    Input: seats = [3,1,5], students = [2,7,4]
    Output: 4
    Explanation: The students are moved as follows:
    - The first student is moved from from position 2 to position 1 using 1 move.
    - The second student is moved from from position 7 to position 5 using 2 moves.
    - The third student is moved from from position 4 to position 3 using 1 move.
    In total, 1 + 2 + 1 = 4 moves were used.

**Example 2:**

    Input: seats = [4,1,5,9], students = [1,3,2,6]
    Output: 7
    Explanation: The students are moved as follows:
    - The first student is not moved.
    - The second student is moved from from position 3 to position 4 using 1 move.
    - The third student is moved from from position 2 to position 5 using 3 moves.
    - The fourth student is moved from from position 6 to position 9 using 3 moves.
    In total, 0 + 1 + 3 + 3 = 7 moves were used.

**Example 3:**

    Input: seats = [2,2,6,6], students = [1,3,2,6]
    Output: 4
    Explanation: Note that there are two seats at position 2 and two seats at position 6.
    The students are moved as follows:
    - The first student is moved from from position 1 to position 2 using 1 move.
    - The second student is moved from from position 3 to position 6 using 3 moves.
    - The third student is not moved.
    - The fourth student is not moved.
    In total, 1 + 3 + 0 + 0 = 4 moves were used.

**Constraints:**

- n == seats.length == students.length
- 1 <= n <= 100
- 1 <= seats[i], students[j] <= 100

## Problem Summary

There are n seats and n students in a room, represented by a number line. You are given an array seats of length n, where seats[i] is the position of the ith seat. You are also given an array students of length n, where students[j] is the position of the jth student.

You may perform the following operation any number of times:

Increase or decrease the position of the ith student by 1 each time (that is, move the ith student from position x to x + 1 or x - 1)

Return the minimum number of moves required so that every student has a seat, and ensure that no two students sit in the same seat.

Note that initially, there may be multiple seats or multiple students at the same position.

## Solution Approach

- Sorting + simulation calculation

# Code

```go
package leetcode

import "sort"

func minMovesToSeat(seats []int, students []int) int {
	sort.Ints(seats)
	sort.Ints(students)
	n := len(students)
	moves := 0
	for i := 0; i < n; i++ {
		moves += abs(seats[i], students[i])
	}
	return moves
}

func abs(a, b int) int {
	if a > b {
		return a - b
	}
	return b - a
}
```
