# [1221. Split a String in Balanced Strings](https://leetcode.com/problems/split-a-string-in-balanced-strings/)


## Problem

Balanced strings are those who have equal quantity of 'L' and 'R' characters.

Given a balanced string `s` split it in the maximum amount of balanced strings.

Return the maximum amount of splitted balanced strings.

**Example 1**:

    Input: s = "RLRRLLRLRL"
    Output: 4
    Explanation: s can be split into "RL", "RRLL", "RL", "RL", each substring contains same number of 'L' and 'R'.

**Example 2**:

    Input: s = "RLLLLRRRLR"
    Output: 3
    Explanation: s can be split into "RL", "LLLRRR", "LR", each substring contains same number of 'L' and 'R'.

**Example 3**:

    Input: s = "LLLLRRRR"
    Output: 1
    Explanation: s can be split into "LLLLRRRR".

**Constraints**:

- `1 <= s.length <= 1000`
- `s[i] = 'L' or 'R'`

## Problem Summary


In a "balanced string", the number of 'L' and 'R' characters is the same. Given a balanced string s, split it into as many balanced strings as possible. Return the maximum number of balanced strings that can be obtained through splitting.

Note:

- 1 <= s.length <= 1000
- s[i] = 'L' or 'R'


## Solution Approach

- Given a string, the requirement is to split this string into some substrings in which the number of R and L characters is equal. Ask how many substrings satisfying the condition it can be split into.
- This is an easy problem; just simulate according to the problem statement. Scan from left to right, add one when encountering `R`, subtract one when encountering `L`, and when the count is `0`, it is balanced, so split there.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

func balancedStringSplit(s string) int {
	count, res := 0, 0
	for _, r := range s {
		if r == 'R' {
			count++
		} else {
			count--
		}
		if count == 0 {
			res++
		}
	}
	return res
}

```
