# [551. Student Attendance Record I](https://leetcode.com/problems/student-attendance-record-i/)

## Problem

You are given a string `s` representing an attendance record for a student where each character signifies whether the student was absent, late, or present on that day. The record only contains the following three characters:

- `'A'`: Absent.
- `'L'`: Late.
- `'P'`: Present.

The student is eligible for an attendance award if they meet **both** of the following criteria:

- The student was absent (`'A'`) for **strictly** fewer than 2 days **total**.
- The student was **never** late (`'L'`) for 3 or more **consecutive** days.

Return `true` *if the student is eligible for an attendance award, or* `false` *otherwise*.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: s = "PPALLP"
Output: true
Explanation: The student has fewer than 2 absences and was never late 3 or more consecutive days.

```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: s = "PPALLL"
Output: false
Explanation: The student was late 3 consecutive days in the last 3 days, so is not eligible for the award.

```

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 1000`
- `s[i]` is either `'A'`, `'L'`, or `'P'`.

## Problem Summary

You are given a string s representing a student's attendance record, where each character marks the attendance status for that day (absent, late, or present). The record contains only the following three characters:

- 'A': Absent
- 'L': Late
- 'P': Present

If the student can satisfy both of the following conditions at the same time, they can receive an attendance award:

- In terms of total attendance, the student was absent ('A') for strictly fewer than two days.
- The student does not have a record of being late ('L') for 3 or more consecutive days.

If the student can receive an attendance award, return true; otherwise, return false.

## Solution Approach

- Traverse the string s to find the total number of 'A's and the maximum number of consecutive 'L's.
- Check whether the number of 'A's is less than 2 and the maximum consecutive number of 'L's is less than 3.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

func checkRecord(s string) bool {
	numsA, maxL, numsL := 0, 0, 0
	for _, v := range s {
		if v == 'L' {
			numsL++
		} else {
			if numsL > maxL {
				maxL = numsL
			}
			numsL = 0
			if v == 'A' {
				numsA++
			}
		}
	}
	if numsL > maxL {
		maxL = numsL
	}
	return numsA < 2 && maxL < 3
}
```
