# [1710. Maximum Units on a Truck](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-units-on-a-truck/)


## Problem

You are assigned to put some amount of boxes onto **one truck**. You are given a 2D array `boxTypes`, where `boxTypes[i] = [numberOfBoxesi, numberOfUnitsPerBoxi]`:

- `numberOfBoxesi` is the number of boxes of type `i`.
- `numberOfUnitsPerBoxi`is the number of units in each box of the type `i`.

You are also given an integer `truckSize`, which is the **maximum** number of **boxes** that can be put on the truck. You can choose any boxes to put on the truck as long as the number of boxes does not exceed `truckSize`.

Return *the **maximum** total number of **units** that can be put on the truck.*

**Example 1:**

```
Input: boxTypes = [[1,3],[2,2],[3,1]], truckSize = 4
Output: 8
Explanation: There are:
- 1 box of the first type that contains 3 units.
- 2 boxes of the second type that contain 2 units each.
- 3 boxes of the third type that contain 1 unit each.
You can take all the boxes of the first and second types, and one box of the third type.
The total number of units will be = (1 * 3) + (2 * 2) + (1 * 1) = 8.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: boxTypes = [[5,10],[2,5],[4,7],[3,9]], truckSize = 10
Output: 91
```

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= boxTypes.length <= 1000`
- `1 <= numberOfBoxesi, numberOfUnitsPerBoxi <= 1000`
- `1 <= truckSize <= 106`

## Problem Summary

You are asked to load some boxes onto one truck. You are given a 2D array boxTypes, where boxTypes[i] = [numberOfBoxesi, numberOfUnitsPerBoxi]:

- numberOfBoxesi is the number of boxes of type i.-
- numberOfUnitsPerBoxi is the number of units each box of type i can hold.

The integer truckSize represents the maximum number of boxes that can be loaded onto the truck. As long as the number of boxes does not exceed truckSize, you can choose any boxes to load onto the truck. Return the maximum total number of units the truck can load.

## Solution Approach

- Easy problem. First sort the boxes by the number of units in descending order. To maximize the number of units loaded onto the truck, you need to load boxes with more units as much as possible. So after sorting, start taking boxes with the highest number of units. Keep taking until there is no space left for truckSize. The accumulated number of units is the maximum total.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

import "sort"

func maximumUnits(boxTypes [][]int, truckSize int) int {
	sort.Slice(boxTypes, func(i, j int) bool {
		return boxTypes[i][1] > boxTypes[j][1]
	})
	res := 0
	for i := 0; truckSize > 0 && i < len(boxTypes); i++ {
		if truckSize >= boxTypes[i][0] {
			truckSize -= boxTypes[i][0]
			res += (boxTypes[i][1] * boxTypes[i][0])
		} else {
			res += (truckSize * boxTypes[i][1])
			truckSize = 0
		}
	}
	return res
}
```
