# [1744. Can You Eat Your Favorite Candy on Your Favorite Day?](https://leetcode.com/problems/can-you-eat-your-favorite-candy-on-your-favorite-day/)

## Problem

You are given a **(0-indexed)** array of positive integers `candiesCount` where `candiesCount[i]` represents the number of candies of the `ith` type you have. You are also given a 2D array `queries` where `queries[i] = [favoriteTypei, favoriteDayi, dailyCapi]`.

You play a game with the following rules:

- You start eating candies on day **`0`**.
- You **cannot** eat **any** candy of type `i` unless you have eaten **all** candies of type `i - 1`.
- You must eat **at least** **one** candy per day until you have eaten all the candies.

Construct a boolean array `answer` such that `answer.length == queries.length` and `answer[i]` is `true` if you can eat a candy of type `favoriteTypei` on day `favoriteDayi` without eating **more than** `dailyCapi` candies on **any** day, and `false` otherwise. Note that you can eat different types of candy on the same day, provided that you follow rule 2.

Return *the constructed array* `answer`.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: candiesCount = [7,4,5,3,8], queries = [[0,2,2],[4,2,4],[2,13,1000000000]]
Output: [true,false,true]
Explanation:
1- If you eat 2 candies (type 0) on day 0 and 2 candies (type 0) on day 1, you will eat a candy of type 0 on day 2.
2- You can eat at most 4 candies each day.
   If you eat 4 candies every day, you will eat 4 candies (type 0) on day 0 and 4 candies (type 0 and type 1) on day 1.
   On day 2, you can only eat 4 candies (type 1 and type 2), so you cannot eat a candy of type 4 on day 2.
3- If you eat 1 candy each day, you will eat a candy of type 2 on day 13.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: candiesCount = [5,2,6,4,1], queries = [[3,1,2],[4,10,3],[3,10,100],[4,100,30],[1,3,1]]
Output: [false,true,true,false,false]
```

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= candiesCount.length <= 105`
- `1 <= candiesCount[i] <= 105`
- `1 <= queries.length <= 105`
- `queries[i].length == 3`
- `0 <= favoriteTypei < candiesCount.length`
- `0 <= favoriteDayi <= 109`
- `1 <= dailyCapi <= 109`

## Problem Summary

You are given a positive integer array candiesCount with indices starting from 0, where candiesCount[i] represents the number of candies you have of type i. You are also given a 2D array queries, where queries[i] = [favoriteTypei, favoriteDayi, dailyCapi]. You play a game according to the following rules:

- You start eating candies on day 0.
- Before eating all candies of type i - 1, you cannot eat any candy of type i.
- Before you have eaten all the candies, you must eat at least one candy every day.

Please construct a boolean array answer such that answer.length == queries.length. The condition for answer[i] to be true is: under the premise of eating no more than dailyCapi candies per day, you can eat a candy of type favoriteTypei on day favoriteDayi; otherwise answer[i] is false. Note that as long as the second of the above 3 rules is satisfied, you can eat different types of candies on the same day. Please return the resulting array answer.

## Solution Approach

- The lower bound on the number of candies eaten per day is 1, and the upper bound is dailyCap. For each query, determine whether you can eat a candy of type i on day i. To eat a candy of type i, you must have finished all candies of type i-1. This means checking whether the interval [favoriteDayi + 1, (favoriteDayi+1)×dailyCapi] can contain a candy of type favoriteTypei. If it can, output true; otherwise output false. The number of candies eaten is cumulative, so here we use prefix sums to compute the interval where the cumulative number of eaten candies falls: [sum[favoriteTypei−1]+1, sum[favoriteTypei]]. Finally, determine whether the query interval and the cumulative candy count interval overlap. If they overlap, output true.
- There are several cases for determining whether two intervals overlap: one contains the other, complete containment, partial containment, and so on. There are fewer cases with no intersection, so we can use exclusion. For intervals [x1, y1] and [x2, y2], they have no intersection if and only if x1 > y2 or y1 < x2.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

func canEat(candiesCount []int, queries [][]int) []bool {
	n := len(candiesCount)
	prefixSum := make([]int, n)
	prefixSum[0] = candiesCount[0]
	for i := 1; i < n; i++ {
		prefixSum[i] = prefixSum[i-1] + candiesCount[i]
	}
	res := make([]bool, len(queries))
	for i, q := range queries {
		favoriteType, favoriteDay, dailyCap := q[0], q[1], q[2]
		x1 := favoriteDay + 1
		y1 := (favoriteDay + 1) * dailyCap
		x2 := 1
		if favoriteType > 0 {
			x2 = prefixSum[favoriteType-1] + 1
		}
		y2 := prefixSum[favoriteType]
		res[i] = !(x1 > y2 || y1 < x2)
	}
	return res
}
```
