# [933. Number of Recent Calls](https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-recent-calls/)



## Problem

Write a class `RecentCounter` to count recent requests.

It has only one method: `ping(int t)`, where t represents some time in milliseconds.

Return the number of `ping`s that have been made from 3000 milliseconds ago until now.

Any ping with time in `[t - 3000, t]` will count, including the current ping.

It is guaranteed that every call to `ping` uses a strictly larger value of `t` than before.

**Example 1**:

```
Input: inputs = ["RecentCounter","ping","ping","ping","ping"], inputs = [[],[1],[100],[3001],[3002]]
Output: [null,1,2,3,3]
```

**Note**:

1. Each test case will have at most `10000` calls to `ping`.
2. Each test case will call `ping` with strictly increasing values of `t`.
3. Each call to ping will have `1 <= t <= 10^9`.


## Problem Summary

Write a RecentCounter class to count recent requests. It has only one method: ping(int t), where t represents some time in milliseconds. Return the number of ping calls from 3000 milliseconds ago until now. Any ping within the time range [t - 3000, t] will be counted, including the current ping (at time t). It is guaranteed that each call to ping uses a larger t value than before.
 
Notes:

- Each test case will call ping at most 10000 times.
- Each test case will call ping with strictly increasing t values.
- Each call to ping has 1 <= t <= 10^9.


## Solution Ideas

- Design a class that can use the `ping(t)` method to calculate the number of pings in the [t-3000, t] interval. t is in milliseconds.
- This problem is relatively simple; use binary search in the `ping()` method.

## Code

```go
type RecentCounter struct {
	list []int
}

func Constructor933() RecentCounter {
	return RecentCounter{
		list: []int{},
	}
}

func (this *RecentCounter) Ping(t int) int {
	this.list = append(this.list, t)
	index := sort.Search(len(this.list), func(i int) bool { return this.list[i] >= t-3000 })
	if index < 0 {
		index = -index - 1
	}
	return len(this.list) - index
}

/**
 * Your RecentCounter object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * obj := Constructor();
 * param_1 := obj.Ping(t);
 */
```
