# [953. Verifying an Alien Dictionary](https://leetcode.com/problems/verifying-an-alien-dictionary/)


## Problem

In an alien language, surprisingly they also use english lowercase letters, but possibly in a different `order`. The `order`of the alphabet is some permutation of lowercase letters.

Given a sequence of `words` written in the alien language, and the `order` of the alphabet, return `true` if and only if the given `words` are sorted lexicographicaly in this alien language.

**Example 1**:

    Input: words = ["hello","leetcode"], order = "hlabcdefgijkmnopqrstuvwxyz"
    Output: true
    Explanation: As 'h' comes before 'l' in this language, then the sequence is sorted.

**Example 2**:

    Input: words = ["word","world","row"], order = "worldabcefghijkmnpqstuvxyz"
    Output: false
    Explanation: As 'd' comes after 'l' in this language, then words[0] > words[1], hence the sequence is unsorted.

**Example 3**:

    Input: words = ["apple","app"], order = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
    Output: false
    Explanation: The first three characters "app" match, and the second string is shorter (in size.) According to lexicographical rules "apple" > "app", because 'l' > '∅', where '∅' is defined as the blank character which is less than any other character (More info).

**Note**:

1. `1 <= words.length <= 100`
2. `1 <= words[i].length <= 20`
3. `order.length == 26`
4. All characters in `words[i]` and `order` are english lowercase letters.


## Problem Summary

A certain alien language also uses English lowercase letters, but the order may be different. The alphabet order (`order`) is a permutation of lowercase letters. Given a set of words `words` written in the alien language, as well as the alphabet order `order`, return `true` only if the given words are sorted lexicographically in this alien language; otherwise, return `false`.



## Solution Approach


- This is an easy problem. Given a string array, determine whether the strings in the array are arranged according to the sorting order of `order`. `order` is a given string ordering. The solution to this problem is to first store the order of the 26 letters in a map, and then iterate through the string array to compare the strings in order.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

func isAlienSorted(words []string, order string) bool {
	if len(words) < 2 {
		return true
	}
	hash := make(map[byte]int)
	for i := 0; i < len(order); i++ {
		hash[order[i]] = i
	}
	for i := 0; i < len(words)-1; i++ {
		pointer, word, wordplus := 0, words[i], words[i+1]
		for pointer < len(word) && pointer < len(wordplus) {
			if hash[word[pointer]] > hash[wordplus[pointer]] {
				return false
			}
			if hash[word[pointer]] < hash[wordplus[pointer]] {
				break
			} else {
				pointer = pointer + 1
			}
		}
		if pointer < len(word) && pointer >= len(wordplus) {
			return false
		}
	}
	return true
}

```
