# [981. Time Based Key-Value Store](https://leetcode.com/problems/time-based-key-value-store/)


## Problem

Create a timebased key-value store class `TimeMap`, that supports two operations.

1. `set(string key, string value, int timestamp)`

- Stores the `key` and `value`, along with the given `timestamp`.

2. `get(string key, int timestamp)`

- Returns a value such that `set(key, value, timestamp_prev)` was called previously, with `timestamp_prev <= timestamp`.
- If there are multiple such values, it returns the one with the largest `timestamp_prev`.
- If there are no values, it returns the empty string (`""`).

**Example 1**:

    Input: inputs = ["TimeMap","set","get","get","set","get","get"], inputs = [[],["foo","bar",1],["foo",1],["foo",3],["foo","bar2",4],["foo",4],["foo",5]]
    Output: [null,null,"bar","bar",null,"bar2","bar2"]
    Explanation:   
    TimeMap kv;   
    kv.set("foo", "bar", 1); // store the key "foo" and value "bar" along with timestamp = 1   
    kv.get("foo", 1);  // output "bar"   
    kv.get("foo", 3); // output "bar" since there is no value corresponding to foo at timestamp 3 and timestamp 2, then the only value is at timestamp 1 ie "bar"   
    kv.set("foo", "bar2", 4);   
    kv.get("foo", 4); // output "bar2"   
    kv.get("foo", 5); //output "bar2"

**Example 2**:

    Input: inputs = ["TimeMap","set","set","get","get","get","get","get"], inputs = [[],["love","high",10],["love","low",20],["love",5],["love",10],["love",15],["love",20],["love",25]]
    Output: [null,null,null,"","high","high","low","low"]

**Note**:

1. All key/value strings are lowercase.
2. All key/value strings have length in the range `[1, 100]`
3. The `timestamps` for all `TimeMap.set` operations are strictly increasing.
4. `1 <= timestamp <= 10^7`
5. `TimeMap.set` and `TimeMap.get` functions will be called a total of `120000` times (combined) per test case.

## Problem Summary

Create a time-based key-value store class TimeMap, which supports the following two operations:

1. set(string key, string value, int timestamp)

- Store the key key, the value value, and the given timestamp timestamp.

2. get(string key, int timestamp)

- Return the value stored by a previous call to set(key, value, timestamp_prev), where timestamp_prev <= timestamp.
- If there are multiple such values, return the one corresponding to the largest  timestamp_prev.
- If there is no value, return the empty string（""）。

Tips:

1. All key/value strings are lowercase.
2. The lengths of all key/value strings are within the range [1, 100].
3. The timestamps timestamps in all TimeMap.set operations are strictly increasing.
4. 1 <= timestamp <= 10^7
5. The TimeMap.set and TimeMap.get functions will be called a total of 120000 times (combined) in each test case.


## Solution Approach

- The requirement is to design a timestamp-based `kv` store. The `set()` operation contains a timestamp. During the get() operation, find the `value` corresponding to the `key` whose timestamp is less than or equal to `timestamp`; if there are multiple solutions, output the `value` corresponding to the largest timestamp that satisfies the condition.
- This problem can be solved with binary search. Use a `map` to store the `kv` data: the `key` corresponds to the `key`, and the `value` corresponds to a struct that contains `value` and `timestamp`. When executing the `get()` operation, first take out the struct array corresponding to `key`, and then perform binary search in this array based on `timestamp`. Since the problem asks to find the largest `timestamp` less than or equal to `timestamp`, there will be many solutions that satisfy the condition. Transform it: first find the minimum solution `> timestamp`, then subtract one from the index, which gives the largest solution satisfying the problem statement.
- In addition, the problem mentions that “the `timestamp` in `TimeMap.set` operations is strictly increasing.” Therefore, when storing the `value` structs in the `map`, no sorting is needed; they are naturally ordered.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

import "sort"

type data struct {
	time  int
	value string
}

// TimeMap is a timebased key-value store
// TimeMap define
type TimeMap map[string][]data

// Constructor981 define
func Constructor981() TimeMap {
	return make(map[string][]data, 1024)
}

// Set define
func (t TimeMap) Set(key string, value string, timestamp int) {
	if _, ok := t[key]; !ok {
		t[key] = make([]data, 1, 1024)
	}
	t[key] = append(t[key], data{
		time:  timestamp,
		value: value,
	})
}

// Get define
func (t TimeMap) Get(key string, timestamp int) string {
	d := t[key]
	i := sort.Search(len(d), func(i int) bool {
		return timestamp < d[i].time
	})
	i--
	return t[key][i].value
}

/**
 * Your TimeMap object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * obj := Constructor();
 * obj.Set(key,value,timestamp);
 * param_2 := obj.Get(key,timestamp);
 */

```
