# [990. Satisfiability of Equality Equations](https://leetcode.com/problems/satisfiability-of-equality-equations/)


## Problem

Given an array equations of strings that represent relationships between variables, each string `equations[i]` has length `4` and takes one of two different forms: `"a==b"` or `"a!=b"`. Here, `a` and `b` are lowercase letters (not necessarily different) that represent one-letter variable names.

Return `true` if and only if it is possible to assign integers to variable names so as to satisfy all the given equations.

**Example 1**:

    Input: ["a==b","b!=a"]
    Output: false
    Explanation: If we assign say, a = 1 and b = 1, then the first equation is satisfied, but not the second.  There is no way to assign the variables to satisfy both equations.

**Example 2**:

    Input: ["b==a","a==b"]
    Output: true
    Explanation: We could assign a = 1 and b = 1 to satisfy both equations.

**Example 3**:

    Input: ["a==b","b==c","a==c"]
    Output: true

**Example 4**:

    Input: ["a==b","b!=c","c==a"]
    Output: false

**Example 5**:

    Input: ["c==c","b==d","x!=z"]
    Output: true

**Note**:

1. `1 <= equations.length <= 500`
2. `equations[i].length == 4`
3. `equations[i][0]` and `equations[i][3]` are lowercase letters
4. `equations[i][1]` is either `'='` or `'!'`
5. `equations[i][2]` is `'='`



## Problem Summary

Given an array of string equations representing relationships between variables, each string equation equations[i] has length 4 and takes one of two different forms: "a==b" or "a!=b". Here, a and b are lowercase letters (not necessarily different) that represent one-letter variable names. Return true only if it is possible to assign integers to variable names so that all the given equations are satisfied; otherwise return false. 

Constraints:

1. 1 <= equations.length <= 500
2. equations[i].length == 4
3. equations[i][0] and equations[i][3] are lowercase letters
4. equations[i][1] is either '=' or '!'
5. equations[i][2] is '='



## Solution Approach


- Given a string array, the array contains relationships between letters, with only two types of relationships: `'=='` and `'! ='`. Determine whether there is a contradiction among these given relationships.
- This is a simple union-find problem. First `union()` all letters with `'=='` relationships, then check each `'! ='` relationship to see whether there is a combination that has a `'=='` relationship. If so, return `false`; if none are found after traversal, return `true`.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

import (
	"github.com/halfrost/leetcode-go/template"
)

func equationsPossible(equations []string) bool {
	if len(equations) == 0 {
		return false
	}
	uf := template.UnionFind{}
	uf.Init(26)
	for _, equ := range equations {
		if equ[1] == '=' && equ[2] == '=' {
			uf.Union(int(equ[0]-'a'), int(equ[3]-'a'))
		}
	}
	for _, equ := range equations {
		if equ[1] == '!' && equ[2] == '=' {
			if uf.Find(int(equ[0]-'a')) == uf.Find(int(equ[3]-'a')) {
				return false
			}
		}
	}
	return true
}

```
