# [991. Broken Calculator](https://leetcode.com/problems/broken-calculator/)


## Problem

On a broken calculator that has a number showing on its display, we can perform two operations:

- **Double**: Multiply the number on the display by 2, or;
- **Decrement**: Subtract 1 from the number on the display.

Initially, the calculator is displaying the number `X`.

Return the minimum number of operations needed to display the number `Y`.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: X = 2, Y = 3
Output: 2
Explanation: Use double operation and then decrement operation {2 -> 4 -> 3}.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: X = 5, Y = 8
Output: 2
Explanation: Use decrement and then double {5 -> 4 -> 8}.
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: X = 3, Y = 10
Output: 3
Explanation:  Use double, decrement and double {3 -> 6 -> 5 -> 10}.
```

**Example 4:**

```
Input: X = 1024, Y = 1
Output: 1023
Explanation: Use decrement operations 1023 times.
```

**Note:**

1. `1 <= X <= 10^9`
2. `1 <= Y <= 10^9`

## Problem Summary

On a broken calculator that has a number showing on its display, we can perform the following two operations:

- Double: Multiply the number on the display by 2;
- Decrement: Subtract 1 from the number on the display.

Initially, the calculator is displaying the number X. Return the minimum number of operations needed to display the number Y.

## Solution Ideas

- Seeing that the data scale of this problem is very large, `10^9`, the algorithm can only use `O(sqrt(n))`, `O(log n)`, or `O(1)`. `O(sqrt(n))` and `O(1)` are impossible for this problem. So, estimating from the data scale, this problem can only try an `O(log n)` algorithm. An `O(log n)` algorithm includes binary search, but this problem does not quite fit the background of a binary search algorithm. Multiplication by 2 clearly appears in the problem, which is obviously something that can achieve `O(log n)`. The final solution idea is determined to be a mathematical method, using multiplication by 2 or division by 2 in the loop.
- Since the operations of multiplying by 2 and subtracting one appear, it is easy to consider parity. The problem asks for the minimum number of operations. With a greedy idea, we should use the division by 2 operation as much as possible so that Y and X become close in size, and finally use the add-one operation for fine-tuning. As long as Y is greater than X, perform the division operation. Of course, parity needs to be considered here: if Y is odd, first add one to make it even and then divide by two; if Y is even, divide by two directly. Continue this operation until Y is not greater than X, and finally perform `X-Y` addition operations for fine-tuning.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

func brokenCalc(X int, Y int) int {
	res := 0
	for Y > X {
		res++
		if Y&1 == 1 {
			Y++
		} else {
			Y /= 2
		}
	}
	return res + X - Y
}
```
