# [1455. Check If a Word Occurs As a Prefix of Any Word in a Sentence](https://leetcode.com/problems/check-if-a-word-occurs-as-a-prefix-of-any-word-in-a-sentence/)


## Problem

Given a `sentence` that consists of some words separated by a **single space**, and a `searchWord`.

You have to check if `searchWord` is a prefix of any word in `sentence`.

Return *the index of the word* in `sentence` where `searchWord` is a prefix of this word (**1-indexed**).

If `searchWord` is a prefix of more than one word, return the index of the first word **(minimum index)**. If there is no such word return **-1**.

A **prefix** of a string `S` is any leading contiguous substring of `S`.

**Example 1**:

```
Input: sentence = "i love eating burger", searchWord = "burg"
Output: 4
Explanation: "burg" is prefix of "burger" which is the 4th word in the sentence.

```

**Example 2**:

```
Input: sentence = "this problem is an easy problem", searchWord = "pro"
Output: 2
Explanation: "pro" is prefix of "problem" which is the 2nd and the 6th word in the sentence, but we return 2 as it's the minimal index.

```

**Example 3**:

```
Input: sentence = "i am tired", searchWord = "you"
Output: -1
Explanation: "you" is not a prefix of any word in the sentence.

```

**Example 4**:

```
Input: sentence = "i use triple pillow", searchWord = "pill"
Output: 4

```

**Example 5**:

```
Input: sentence = "hello from the other side", searchWord = "they"
Output: -1

```

**Constraints**:

- `1 <= sentence.length <= 100`
- `1 <= searchWord.length <= 10`
- `sentence` consists of lowercase English letters and spaces.
- `searchWord` consists of lowercase English letters.

## Problem Summary

Given a string sentence as a sentence and a search term searchWord, where the sentence consists of several words separated by a single space. Check whether the search term searchWord is a prefix of any word in the sentence sentence.

- If searchWord is the prefix of a word, return the corresponding index of that word in the sentence sentence (indices start from 1).
- If searchWord is the prefix of multiple words, return the index of the first matched word (minimum index).
- If searchWord is not the prefix of any word, return -1.

The "prefix" of a string S is any leading contiguous substring of S.

## Solution Approach

- Given 2 strings, one is the matching string, and the other is the sentence. Find the word in the sentence that has the matching string as a prefix, and return the index of the first matched word.
- Easy problem. According to the problem statement, scan the sentence once and match along the way.

## Code

```go

package leetcode

import "strings"

func isPrefixOfWord(sentence string, searchWord string) int {
	for i, v := range strings.Split(sentence, " ") {
		if strings.HasPrefix(v, searchWord) {
			return i + 1
		}
	}
	return -1
}

```
