# [470. Implement Rand10() Using Rand7()](https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-rand10-using-rand7/)


## Problem

Given a function `rand7` which generates a uniform random integer in the range 1 to 7, write a function `rand10` which generates a uniform random integer in the range 1 to 10.

Do NOT use system's `Math.random()`.

**Example 1**:

    Input: 1
    Output: [7]

**Example 2**:

    Input: 2
    Output: [8,4]

**Example 3**:

    Input: 3
    Output: [8,1,10]

**Note**:

1. `rand7` is predefined.
2. Each testcase has one argument: `n`, the number of times that `rand10` is called.

**Follow up**:

1. What is the [expected value](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expected_value) for the number of calls to `rand7()` function?
2. Could you minimize the number of calls to `rand7()`?


## Problem Summary

There is an existing method rand7 that can generate a uniform random integer in the range 1 to 7. Try to write a method rand10 to generate a uniform random integer in the range 1 to 10. Do not use the system's Math.random() method.


Notes:

- rand7 is predefined.
- Input parameter: n represents the number of times rand10 is called.
 

Follow-up:

- What is the expected value of the number of calls to rand7()?
- Can you call rand7() as few times as possible?



## Solution Ideas


- Given `rand7()`, implement `rand10()`.
- `rand7()` generates 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 with equal probability. To obtain `rand10()`, i.e., generate 1-10 with equal probability. The idea is to first construct a `randN()`, where N must be an integer multiple of 10, and then randN % 10 can give `rand10()`. So we can first construct `rand49()` from `rand7()`, then filter out all values in `rand49()` that are greater than or equal to 40, thereby obtaining `rand40()`, and then take modulo 10.
- Specific construction steps, `rand7() --> rand49() --> rand40() --> rand10()`:
    1. `rand7()` generates 1,2,3,4,5,6,7 with equal probability.
    2. `rand7() - 1` generates [0,6] with equal probability.
    3. `(rand7() - 1) *7` generates 0, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42 with equal probability
    4. `(rand7() - 1) * 7 + (rand7() - 1)` generates these 49 numbers [0, 48] with equal probability
    5. If the result of step 4 is greater than or equal to 40, then repeat step 4 until the generated number is less than 40
    6. Take the result of step 5 mod 10 and then add 1, which will randomly generate [1, 10] with equal probability
- This problem can be generalized to the problem of generating a random number of any range. Use `randN()` to implement `randM()`, where `M>N`. The steps are as follows:
    1. First use `randN()` to implement `randX()`, where X ≥ M, and X is an integer multiple of M. For example, 49 > 10 in this problem;
    2. Then use `randX()` to generate `randM()`, as in this problem: 49 —> 40 —> 10.
- For example, to use `rand3()` to generate `rand11()`, you can first generate `rand27()`, then set the threshold to 22, because 22 is a multiple of 11. The way to generate `rand27()` is: `3 * 3 * (rand3() - 1) + 3 * (rand3() - 1) + (rand3() - 1)`, and finally `rand11()` is generated; to use `rand7()` to generate `rand9()`, you can first generate `rand49()`, then set the threshold to 45, because 45 is a multiple of 9. The way to generate `rand49()` is: `(rand7() - 1) * 7 + (rand7() - 1)`, and finally `rand9()` is generated; to use `rand6()` to generate `rand13()`, you can first generate `rand36()`, then set the threshold to 26, because 26 is a multiple of 13. The way to generate `rand36()` is: `(rand6() - 1) * 6 + (rand6() - 1)`, and finally `rand13()` is generated;


## Code

```go

package leetcode

import "math/rand"

func rand10() int {
	rand10 := 10
	for rand10 >= 10 {
		rand10 = (rand7() - 1) + rand7()
	}
	return rand10%10 + 1
}

func rand7() int {
	return rand.Intn(7)
}

func rand101() int {
	rand40 := 40
	for rand40 >= 40 {
		rand40 = (rand7()-1)*7 + rand7() - 1
	}
	return rand40%10 + 1
}

```
