# [474. Ones and Zeroes](https://leetcode.com/problems/ones-and-zeroes/)


## Problem

In the computer world, use restricted resource you have to generate maximum benefit is what we always want to pursue.

For now, suppose you are a dominator of **m** `0s` and **n** `1s` respectively. On the other hand, there is an array with strings consisting of only `0s` and `1s`.

Now your task is to find the maximum number of strings that you can form with given **m**`0s` and **n** `1s`. Each `0` and `1` can be used at most **once**.

**Note**:

1. The given numbers of `0s` and `1s` will both not exceed `100`
2. The size of given string array won't exceed `600`.

**Example 1**:

    Input: Array = {"10", "0001", "111001", "1", "0"}, m = 5, n = 3
    Output: 4
    
    Explanation: This are totally 4 strings can be formed by the using of 5 0s and 3 1s, which are “10,”0001”,”1”,”0”

**Example 2**:

    Input: Array = {"10", "0", "1"}, m = 1, n = 1
    Output: 2
    
    Explanation: You could form "10", but then you'd have nothing left. Better form "0" and "1".


## Problem Summary

In the computer world, we always pursue gaining the maximum benefit with limited resources. Now, suppose you control m `0`s and n `1`s respectively. In addition, there is an array of strings containing only `0`s and `1`s. Your task is to use the given m `0`s and n `1`s to find the maximum number of strings from the array that can be formed. Each `0` and `1` can be used at most once.

Note:

1. The given numbers of `0`s and `1`s will both not exceed `100`.
2. The length of the given string array will not exceed `600`.



## Solution Approach

- Given a string array and m, n, where all characters consist of 0 and 1. Determine the maximum number of strings that can be taken from the array such that the total number of 0s in the selected strings is ≤ m and the total number of 1s is ≤ n.
- This problem is a typical 0-1 knapsack problem. It is just a two-dimensional knapsack problem. Select certain items from n items to **fill as much as possible** the knapsack in the m dimension and the n dimension. Why fill as much as possible? Because the knapsack may not be completely filled.
- `dp[i][j]` represents the total number of items that can be put into a knapsack with capacity `(i,j)` while filling it as much as possible. The state transition equation is `dp[i][j] = max(dp[i][j], 1+dp[i-zero][j-one])`. Here, zero represents the volume of the current item in the m dimension, that is, the number of 0s. one represents the volume of the current item in the n dimension, that is, the number of 1s. Each time an item is added, compare the total number of items in the current `(i,j)` knapsack with the total number of items in the `(i-zero,j-one)` knapsack + 1, compare the two values, and save the maximum of them. Refresh this two-dimensional knapsack each time an item is added, until all items have been scanned once. The final answer is stored in `dp[m][n]`. The time complexity is `O( n * M * N )`.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

import "strings"

func findMaxForm(strs []string, m int, n int) int {
	dp := make([][]int, m+1)
	for i := 0; i < m+1; i++ {
		dp[i] = make([]int, n+1)
	}
	for _, s := range strs {
		zero := strings.Count(s, "0")
		one := len(s) - zero
		if zero > m || one > n {
			continue
		}
		for i := m; i >= zero; i-- {
			for j := n; j >= one; j-- {
				dp[i][j] = max(dp[i][j], 1+dp[i-zero][j-one])
			}
		}
	}
	return dp[m][n]
}

```
