# [497. Random Point in Non-overlapping Rectangles](https://leetcode.com/problems/random-point-in-non-overlapping-rectangles)


## Problem

Given a list of **non-overlapping** axis-aligned rectangles `rects`, write a function `pick` which randomly and uniformily picks an **integer point** in the space covered by the rectangles.

**Note**:

1. An **integer point** is a point that has integer coordinates.
2. A point on the perimeter of a rectangle is **included** in the space covered by the rectangles.
3. `i`th rectangle = `rects[i]` = `[x1,y1,x2,y2]`, where `[x1, y1]` are the integer coordinates of the bottom-left corner, and `[x2, y2]` are the integer coordinates of the top-right corner.
4. length and width of each rectangle does not exceed `2000`.
5. `1 <= rects.length <= 100`
6. `pick` return a point as an array of integer coordinates `[p_x, p_y]`
7. `pick` is called at most `10000` times.

**Example 1**:

    Input: 
    ["Solution","pick","pick","pick"]
    [[[[1,1,5,5]]],[],[],[]]
    Output: 
    [null,[4,1],[4,1],[3,3]]

**Example 2**:

    Input: 
    ["Solution","pick","pick","pick","pick","pick"]
    [[[[-2,-2,-1,-1],[1,0,3,0]]],[],[],[],[],[]]
    Output: 
    [null,[-1,-2],[2,0],[-2,-1],[3,0],[-2,-2]]

**Explanation of Input Syntax**:

The input is two lists: the subroutines called and their arguments. `Solution`'s constructor has one argument, the array of rectangles `rects`. `pick` has no arguments. Arguments are always wrapped with a list, even if there aren't any.


## Problem Summary

Given a list of non-overlapping axis-aligned rectangles rects, write a function pick to randomly and uniformly select an integer point in the space covered by the rectangles.

Notes:

1. An integer point is a point with integer coordinates.
2. Points on the perimeter of a rectangle are included in the space covered by the rectangle.
3. The ith rectangle rects [i] = [x1, y1, x2, y2], where [x1, y1] are the integer coordinates of the bottom-left corner, and [x2, y2] are the integer coordinates of the top-right corner.
4. The length and width of each rectangle do not exceed 2000.
5. 1 <= rects.length <= 100
6. pick returns a point in the form of an array of integer coordinates [p_x, p_y].
7. pick is called at most 10000 times.


Explanation of Input Syntax:

The input is two lists: the subroutines called and their arguments. Solution's constructor has one argument, the array of rectangles rects. pick has no arguments. Arguments are always wrapped in a list, even if there aren't any.


## Solution Approach


- Given a list of non-overlapping axis-aligned rectangles, each rectangle is represented by the coordinates of its bottom-left and top-right corners. The requirement is for `pick()` to randomly and uniformly select an integer point in the space covered by the rectangles.
- This problem is a variant of Problem 528. In this problem, the weight is the area. Select a rectangle by weight (area), then randomly select a point from that rectangle. The idea and code are the same as in Problem 528.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

import "math/rand"

// Solution497 define
type Solution497 struct {
	rects [][]int
	arr   []int
}

// Constructor497 define
func Constructor497(rects [][]int) Solution497 {
	s := Solution497{
		rects: rects,
		arr:   make([]int, len(rects)),
	}

	for i := 0; i < len(rects); i++ {
		area := (rects[i][2] - rects[i][0] + 1) * (rects[i][3] - rects[i][1] + 1)
		if area < 0 {
			area = -area
		}
		if i == 0 {
			s.arr[0] = area
		} else {
			s.arr[i] = s.arr[i-1] + area
		}
	}
	return s
}

// Pick define
func (so *Solution497) Pick() []int {
	r := rand.Int() % so.arr[len(so.arr)-1]
	//get rectangle first
	low, high, index := 0, len(so.arr)-1, -1
	for low <= high {
		mid := low + (high-low)>>1
		if so.arr[mid] > r {
			if mid == 0 || so.arr[mid-1] <= r {
				index = mid
				break
			}
			high = mid - 1
		} else {
			low = mid + 1
		}
	}
	if index == -1 {
		index = low
	}
	if index > 0 {
		r = r - so.arr[index-1]
	}
	length := so.rects[index][2] - so.rects[index][0]
	return []int{so.rects[index][0] + r%(length+1), so.rects[index][1] + r/(length+1)}
}

/**
 * Your Solution object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * obj := Constructor(rects);
 * param_1 := obj.Pick();
 */

```
