# [705. Design HashSet](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hashset/)


## Problem

Design a HashSet without using any built-in hash table libraries.

To be specific, your design should include these functions:

- `add(value)`: Insert a value into the HashSet.
- `contains(value)` : Return whether the value exists in the HashSet or not.
- `remove(value)`: Remove a value in the HashSet. If the value does not exist in the HashSet, do nothing.

**Example**:

    MyHashSet hashSet = new MyHashSet();
    hashSet.add(1);         
    hashSet.add(2);         
    hashSet.contains(1);    // returns true
    hashSet.contains(3);    // returns false (not found)
    hashSet.add(2);          
    hashSet.contains(2);    // returns true
    hashSet.remove(2);          
    hashSet.contains(2);    // returns false (already removed)

**Note**:

- All values will be in the range of `[0, 1000000]`.
- The number of operations will be in the range of `[1, 10000]`.
- Please do not use the built-in HashSet library.


## Problem Summary

Design a hash set without using any built-in hash table libraries. Specifically, your design should include the following functions:

- add(value): Insert a value into the hash set.
- contains(value): Return whether this value exists in the hash set.
- remove(value): Remove the given value from the hash set. If this value does not exist in the hash set, do nothing.


Note:

- All values are in the range [1, 1000000].
- The total number of operations is in the range [1, 10000].
- Do not use the built-in hash set library.



## Solution Ideas


- Easy problem. Design a hashset data structure that requires these 3 methods: `add(value)`, `contains(value)`, and `remove(value)`.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

type MyHashSet struct {
	data []bool
}

/** Initialize your data structure here. */
func Constructor705() MyHashSet {
	return MyHashSet{
		data: make([]bool, 1000001),
	}
}

func (this *MyHashSet) Add(key int) {
	this.data[key] = true
}

func (this *MyHashSet) Remove(key int) {
	this.data[key] = false
}

/** Returns true if this set contains the specified element */
func (this *MyHashSet) Contains(key int) bool {
	return this.data[key]
}

/**
 * Your MyHashSet object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * obj := Constructor();
 * obj.Add(key);
 * obj.Remove(key);
 * param_3 := obj.Contains(key);
 */

```
