# [775. Global and Local Inversions](https://leetcode.com/problems/global-and-local-inversions/)


## Problem

We have some permutation `A` of `[0, 1, ..., N - 1]`, where `N` is the length of `A`.

The number of (global) inversions is the number of `i < j` with `0 <= i < j < N` and `A[i] > A[j]`.

The number of local inversions is the number of `i` with `0 <= i < N` and `A[i] > A[i+1]`.

Return `true` if and only if the number of global inversions is equal to the number of local inversions.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: A = [1,0,2]
Output: true
Explanation: There is 1 global inversion, and 1 local inversion.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: A = [1,2,0]
Output: false
Explanation: There are 2 global inversions, and 1 local inversion.
```

**Note:**

- `A` will be a permutation of `[0, 1, ..., A.length - 1]`.
- `A` will have length in range `[1, 5000]`.
- The time limit for this problem has been reduced.

## Problem Summary

Array A is a permutation of [0, 1, ..., N - 1], where N is the length of array A. A global inversion refers to i,j satisfying 0 <= i < j < N and A[i] > A[j] , while a local inversion refers to i satisfying 0 <= i < N and A[i] > A[i+1] . Return true when the number of global inversions in array A is equal to the number of local inversions.

## Solution Approach

- The code for this problem is very simple; the focus is on the reasoning process. The ideal situation where `[0, 1, ..., N - 1]` has no global inversions should be that `i` is positioned at `A[i-1]`, `A[i]`, or `A[i+1]`. For example, if `1` is positioned at `A[3]`, then the only element smaller than `1` is `0`, so among `A[0]`, `A[1]`, and `A[2]` there must be 2 elements greater than `1`, which inevitably creates a global inversion. `[0, 1, ..., N - 1]` is the most ideal case, where every element is in its own position. If each element shifts left or right by 1 position, it can still be guaranteed that only local inversions exist; if it shifts left or right by 2 positions, then a global inversion will definitely occur. Therefore, the conclusion is: **the ideal situation where no global inversion occurs should be that `i` is positioned at `A[i-1]`, `A[i]`, or `A[i+1]`**. The code to check this conclusion is very simple: we only need to determine whether the value of `A[i] - i` is -1, 0, or 1, that is, whether `abs(A[i] - i ) ≤ 1`.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

func isIdealPermutation(A []int) bool {
	for i := range A {
		if abs(A[i]-i) > 1 {
			return false
		}
	}
	return true
}

func abs(a int) int {
	if a < 0 {
		return -a
	}
	return a
}
```
