# [792. Number of Matching Subsequences](https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-matching-subsequences/)


## Problem

Given a string `s` and an array of strings `words`, return *the number of* `words[i]` *that is a subsequence of* `s`.

A **subsequence** of a string is a new string generated from the original string with some characters (can be none) deleted without changing the relative order of the remaining characters.

- For example, `"ace"` is a subsequence of `"abcde"`.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: s = "abcde", words = ["a","bb","acd","ace"]
Output: 3
Explanation: There are three strings in words that are a subsequence of s: "a", "acd", "ace".
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: s = "dsahjpjauf", words = ["ahjpjau","ja","ahbwzgqnuk","tnmlanowax"]
Output: 2
```

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 5 * 104`
- `1 <= words.length <= 5000`
- `1 <= words[i].length <= 50`
- `s` and `words[i]` consist of only lowercase English letters.

## Problem Summary

Given a string S and a word dictionary words, find the number of words in words[i] that are subsequences of S.

## Solution Approach

- If each string in the words array is matched against the source string S every time, this brute-force solution will time out. The reason for the timeout is that the string S is traversed multiple times. Is there a more efficient method?
- Divide the strings in the words array into 26 buckets according to their first letter. Traverse the source string S once from the beginning. For each letter scanned, it hits one of the 26 buckets, and the strings in that bucket are modified. For example: currently traversing to 'o', and the data in the buckets is 'a' : ['amy','aop'], 'o': ['oqp','onwn']; after adjusting the data in the 'o' bucket, the state of each bucket becomes 'a' : ['amy','aop'], 'q': ['qp'], 'n': ['nwn']. After scanning the entire string S from beginning to end, if a string in a certain bucket is emptied, it means that the string satisfies being a subsequence of S. Accumulate the number of strings that satisfy being subsequences to get the final answer.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

func numMatchingSubseq(s string, words []string) int {
	hash, res := make([][]string, 26), 0
	for _, w := range words {
		hash[int(w[0]-'a')] = append(hash[int(w[0]-'a')], w)
	}
	for _, c := range s {
		words := hash[int(byte(c)-'a')]
		hash[int(byte(c)-'a')] = []string{}
		for _, w := range words {
			if len(w) == 1 {
				res += 1
				continue
			}
			hash[int(w[1]-'a')] = append(hash[int(w[1]-'a')], w[1:])
		}
	}
	return res
}
```
