# [676. Implement Magic Dictionary](https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-magic-dictionary/)


## Problem

Implement a magic directory with `buildDict`, and `search` methods.

For the method `buildDict`, you'll be given a list of non-repetitive words to build a dictionary.

For the method `search`, you'll be given a word, and judge whether if you modify **exactly** one character into **another**character in this word, the modified word is in the dictionary you just built.

**Example 1**:

    Input: buildDict(["hello", "leetcode"]), Output: Null
    Input: search("hello"), Output: False
    Input: search("hhllo"), Output: True
    Input: search("hell"), Output: False
    Input: search("leetcoded"), Output: False

**Note**:

1. You may assume that all the inputs are consist of lowercase letters `a-z`.
2. For contest purpose, the test data is rather small by now. You could think about highly efficient algorithm after the contest.
3. Please remember to **RESET** your class variables declared in class MagicDictionary, as static/class variables are **persisted across multiple test cases**. Please see [here](https://leetcode.com/faq/#different-output) for more details.


## Problem Summary

Implement a magic dictionary with buildDict and search methods. For the buildDict method, you will be given a list of non-repetitive words to build a dictionary. For the search method, you will be given a word and need to determine whether you can change exactly one letter in this word into another letter so that the newly formed word exists in the dictionary you built.



## Solution Approach


- Implement the `MagicDictionary` data structure. This data structure stores a string array. When performing the `Search` operation, it needs to determine whether the incoming string can be changed into a string stored in `MagicDictionary` by changing exactly one character (without adding or deleting characters). If it can, output `true`; otherwise, output `false`.
- The solution to this problem is relatively simple; just use a Map to determine it.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

type MagicDictionary struct {
	rdict map[int]string
}

/** Initialize your data structure here. */
func Constructor676() MagicDictionary {
	return MagicDictionary{rdict: make(map[int]string)}
}

/** Build a dictionary through a list of words */
func (this *MagicDictionary) BuildDict(dict []string) {
	for k, v := range dict {
		this.rdict[k] = v
	}
}

/** Returns if there is any word in the trie that equals to the given word after modifying exactly one character */
func (this *MagicDictionary) Search(word string) bool {
	for _, v := range this.rdict {
		n := 0
		if len(word) == len(v) {
			for i := 0; i < len(v); i++ {
				if word[i] != v[i] {
					n += 1
				}
			}
			if n == 1 {
				return true
			}
		}
	}
	return false
}

/**
 * Your MagicDictionary object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * obj := Constructor();
 * obj.BuildDict(dict);
 * param_2 := obj.Search(word);
 */

```
