# [684. Redundant Connection](https://leetcode.com/problems/redundant-connection/)


## Problem

In this problem, a tree is an **undirected** graph that is connected and has no cycles.

The given input is a graph that started as a tree with N nodes (with distinct values 1, 2, ..., N), with one additional edge added. The added edge has two different vertices chosen from 1 to N, and was not an edge that already existed.

The resulting graph is given as a 2D-array of `edges`. Each element of `edges` is a pair `[u, v]` with `u < v`, that represents an **undirected** edge connecting nodes `u` and `v`.

Return an edge that can be removed so that the resulting graph is a tree of N nodes. If there are multiple answers, return the answer that occurs last in the given 2D-array. The answer edge `[u, v]` should be in the same format, with `u < v`.

**Example 1**:

    Input: [[1,2], [1,3], [2,3]]
    Output: [2,3]
    Explanation: The given undirected graph will be like this:
      1
     / \
    2 - 3

**Example 2**:

    Input: [[1,2], [2,3], [3,4], [1,4], [1,5]]
    Output: [1,4]
    Explanation: The given undirected graph will be like this:
    5 - 1 - 2
        |   |
        4 - 3

**Note**:

- The size of the input 2D-array will be between 3 and 1000.
- Every integer represented in the 2D-array will be between 1 and N, where N is the size of the input array.

**Update (2017-09-26)**: We have overhauled the problem description + test cases and specified clearly the graph is an **undirected** graph. For the **directed** graph follow up please see **[Redundant Connection II](https://leetcode.com/problems/redundant-connection-ii/description/)**). We apologize for any inconvenience caused.


## Problem Summary

In this problem, a tree refers to a connected and acyclic undirected graph. The input is a graph composed of a tree with N nodes (node values are distinct: 1, 2, ..., N) and one additional edge. The two vertices of the additional edge are between 1 and N, and this additional edge is not an edge that already existed in the tree. The resulting graph is a 2D array composed of edges. Each edge element is a pair [u, v], satisfying u < v, representing an undirected edge connecting vertices u and v.

Return an edge that can be deleted so that the resulting graph is a tree with N nodes. If there are multiple answers, return the edge that appears last in the 2D array. The answer edge [u, v] should satisfy the same format u < v.

Note:

- The size of the input 2D array is between 3 and 1000.
- The integers in the 2D array are between 1 and N, where N is the size of the input array.


## Solution Approach

- Given a connected acyclic undirected graph and some connected edges, the requirement is to delete one edge among these edges so that the N nodes in the graph are still connected. If there are multiple such edges, output the last one.
- This problem can be solved directly with Union-Find. Scan all edges in order, and merge the two endpoints of each edge together with `union()`. If an edge is encountered whose two endpoints are already in the same set, it means this is a redundant edge and should be deleted. Finally, output these edges.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

import (
	"github.com/halfrost/leetcode-go/template"
)

func findRedundantConnection(edges [][]int) []int {
	if len(edges) == 0 {
		return []int{}
	}
	uf, res := template.UnionFind{}, []int{}
	uf.Init(len(edges) + 1)
	for i := 0; i < len(edges); i++ {
		if uf.Find(edges[i][0]) != uf.Find(edges[i][1]) {
			uf.Union(edges[i][0], edges[i][1])
		} else {
			res = append(res, edges[i][0])
			res = append(res, edges[i][1])
		}
	}
	return res
}

```
