# [1640. Check Array Formation Through Concatenation](https://leetcode.com/problems/check-array-formation-through-concatenation/)


## Problem

You are given an array of **distinct** integers `arr` and an array of integer arrays `pieces`, where the integers in `pieces` are **distinct**. Your goal is to form `arr` by concatenating the arrays in `pieces` **in any order**. However, you are **not** allowed to reorder the integers in each array `pieces[i]`.

Return `true` *if it is possible to form the array* `arr` *from* `pieces`. Otherwise, return `false`.

**Example 1**:

```
Input: arr = [85], pieces = [[85]]
Output: true
```

**Example 2**:

```
Input: arr = [15,88], pieces = [[88],[15]]
Output: true
Explanation: Concatenate [15] then [88]
```

**Example 3**:

```
Input: arr = [49,18,16], pieces = [[16,18,49]]
Output: false
Explanation: Even though the numbers match, we cannot reorder pieces[0].
```

**Example 4**:

```
Input: arr = [91,4,64,78], pieces = [[78],[4,64],[91]]
Output: true
Explanation: Concatenate [91] then [4,64] then [78]
```

**Example 5**:

```
Input: arr = [1,3,5,7], pieces = [[2,4,6,8]]
Output: false

```

**Constraints**:

- `1 <= pieces.length <= arr.length <= 100`
- `sum(pieces[i].length) == arr.length`
- `1 <= pieces[i].length <= arr.length`
- `1 <= arr[i], pieces[i][j] <= 100`
- The integers in `arr` are **distinct**.
- The integers in `pieces` are **distinct** (i.e., If we flatten pieces in a 1D array, all the integers in this array are distinct).

## Problem Summary

You are given an integer array `arr`, where every integer is distinct. You are also given an array `pieces` consisting of integer arrays, where the integers are also distinct. You need to concatenate the arrays in `pieces` in any order to form `arr`. However, you are not allowed to reorder the integers in each array `pieces[i]`. If the arrays in `pieces` can be concatenated to form `arr`, return `true`; otherwise, return `false`.

## Solution Approach

- Easy problem. The problem guarantees that the elements in `arr` are unique, so we can use a map to store the index of each element for easy lookup. Traverse the `pieces` array, and for each one-dimensional array, determine whether the order of its elements is consistent with their relative order in the original `arr`. At this point, use the map for lookup. If the positions are consecutive one by one, then it is correct. If any order is not consecutive, or an element that does not exist in `arr` appears, return `false`.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

func canFormArray(arr []int, pieces [][]int) bool {
	arrMap := map[int]int{}
	for i, v := range arr {
		arrMap[v] = i
	}
	for i := 0; i < len(pieces); i++ {
		order := -1
		for j := 0; j < len(pieces[i]); j++ {
			if _, ok := arrMap[pieces[i][j]]; !ok {
				return false
			}
			if order == -1 {
				order = arrMap[pieces[i][j]]
			} else {
				if arrMap[pieces[i][j]] == order+1 {
					order = arrMap[pieces[i][j]]
				} else {
					return false
				}
			}
		}
	}
	return true
}
```
