# [1673. Find the Most Competitive Subsequence](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-most-competitive-subsequence/)


## Problem

Given an integer array `nums` and a positive integer `k`, return *the most **competitive** subsequence of* `nums` *of size* `k`.

An array's subsequence is a resulting sequence obtained by erasing some (possibly zero) elements from the array.

We define that a subsequence `a` is more **competitive** than a subsequence `b` (of the same length) if in the first position where `a` and `b` differ, subsequence `a` has a number **less** than the corresponding number in `b`. For example, `[1,3,4]` is more competitive than `[1,3,5]` because the first position they differ is at the final number, and `4` is less than `5`.

**Example 1**:

```
Input: nums = [3,5,2,6], k = 2
Output: [2,6]
Explanation: Among the set of every possible subsequence: {[3,5], [3,2], [3,6], [5,2], [5,6], [2,6]}, [2,6] is the most competitive.

```

**Example 2**:

```
Input: nums = [2,4,3,3,5,4,9,6], k = 4
Output: [2,3,3,4]

```

**Constraints**:

- `1 <= nums.length <= 105`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 109`
- `1 <= k <= nums.length`

## Problem Summary

Given an integer array nums and a positive integer k, return the most competitive subsequence of nums with length k. A subsequence of an array is a sequence obtained by deleting some elements from the array (possibly deleting no elements).

At the first position where subsequence a and subsequence b differ, if the number in a is less than the corresponding number in b, then we say subsequence a is more competitive than subsequence b (when they have the same length). For example, [1,3,4] is more competitive than [1,3,5]; at the first differing position, which is the last position, 4 is less than 5.

## Solution Approach

- This problem is a typical monotonic stack problem. Using a monotonic stack can ensure that the relative positions of elements in the original array remain unchanged, which satisfies the requirement in the problem of deleting elements without moving elements. A monotonic stack can also ensure that each time an element is pushed onto the stack, the element is the smallest possible.
- Similar problems include Problem 42, Problem 84, Problem 496, Problem 503, Problem 856, Problem 901, Problem 907, Problem 1130, Problem 1425, and Problem 1673.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

// Monotonic stack
func mostCompetitive(nums []int, k int) []int {
	stack := make([]int, 0, len(nums))
	for i := 0; i < len(nums); i++ {
		for len(stack)+len(nums)-i > k && len(stack) > 0 && nums[i] < stack[len(stack)-1] {
			stack = stack[:len(stack)-1]
		}
		stack = append(stack, nums[i])
	}
	return stack[:k]
}
```
