# [1689. Partitioning Into Minimum Number Of Deci-Binary Numbers](https://leetcode.com/problems/partitioning-into-minimum-number-of-deci-binary-numbers/)

## Problem

A decimal number is called **deci-binary** if each of its digits is either `0` or `1` without any leading zeros. For example, `101` and `1100` are **deci-binary**, while `112` and `3001` are not.

Given a string `n` that represents a positive decimal integer, return *the **minimum** number of positive **deci-binary** numbers needed so that they sum up to* `n`*.*

**Example 1**:

```
Input: n = "32"
Output: 3
Explanation: 10 + 11 + 11 = 32
```

**Example 2**:

```
Input: n = "82734"
Output: 8
```

**Example 3**:

```
Input: n = "27346209830709182346"
Output: 9
```

**Constraints**:

- `1 <= n.length <= 105`
- `n` consists of only digits.
- `n` does not contain any leading zeros and represents a positive integer.

## Problem Summary

If a decimal number has no leading zeros and each digit is either 0 or 1, then the number is a deci-binary number. For example, 101 and 1100 are deci-binary numbers, while 112 and 3001 are not. Given a string n representing a decimal integer, return the minimum number of deci-binary numbers whose sum is n.

## Solution Approach

- This problem can also be considered easy; once you understand it, the code is just 3 lines.
- To form n using decimal numbers composed of 0s and 1s, you only need to place 0s and 1s in each digit position of n one by one. For example, n = 23423723, which is an 8-digit number. The largest digit is 7, so at least 7 numbers are needed to sum up to this n. The hundreds digit of these 7 numbers is all 1, and the other digit positions can be 0 or 1 as needed. For example, if the ten-thousands digit is 2, then among these 7 numbers, choose any 2 numbers whose ten-thousands digit is 1, and let the ten-thousands digit of the other 5 numbers be 0.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

func minPartitions(n string) int {
	res := 0
	for i := 0; i < len(n); i++ {
		if int(n[i]-'0') > res {
			res = int(n[i] - '0')
		}
	}
	return res
}
```
