# [151. Reverse Words in a String](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-words-in-a-string/)



## Problem

Given an input string, reverse the string word by word.

**Example 1**:

    Input: "the sky is blue"
    Output: "blue is sky the"

**Example 2**:

    Input: "  hello world!  "
    Output: "world! hello"
    Explanation: Your reversed string should not contain leading or trailing spaces.

**Example 3**:

    Input: "a good   example"
    Output: "example good a"
    Explanation: You need to reduce multiple spaces between two words to a single space in the reversed string.

**Note**:

- A word is defined as a sequence of non-space characters.
- Input string may contain leading or trailing spaces. However, your reversed string should not contain leading or trailing spaces.
- You need to reduce multiple spaces between two words to a single space in the reversed string.

**Follow up**:

For C programmers, try to solve it *in-place* in *O*(1) extra space.


## Problem Summary

Given a string, reverse each word in the string one by one.

Explanation:

- A word is composed of non-space characters.
- The input string may contain extra spaces at the beginning or end, but the reversed string must not include them.
- If there are extra spaces between two words, reduce the spaces between words after reversal to just one.
 

Follow-up:

- Users choosing the C language are asked to try using an in-place solution with O(1) extra space complexity.


## Solution Approach


- Given a string with words separated by spaces, reverse the string in terms of words.
- According to the problem statement, first split the string into individual words by spaces, then reverse the order of the words, and finally add spaces between each word.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

import "strings"

func reverseWords151(s string) string {
	ss := strings.Fields(s)
	reverse151(&ss, 0, len(ss)-1)
	return strings.Join(ss, " ")
}

func reverse151(m *[]string, i int, j int) {
	for i <= j {
		(*m)[i], (*m)[j] = (*m)[j], (*m)[i]
		i++
		j--
	}
}

```
