# [1160. Find Words That Can Be Formed by Characters](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-words-that-can-be-formed-by-characters/)


## Problem

You are given an array of strings `words` and a string `chars`.

A string is *good* if it can be formed by characters from `chars` (each character can only be used once).

Return the sum of lengths of all good strings in `words`.

**Example 1**:

    Input: words = ["cat","bt","hat","tree"], chars = "atach"
    Output: 6
    Explanation: 
    The strings that can be formed are "cat" and "hat" so the answer is 3 + 3 = 6.

**Example 2**:

    Input: words = ["hello","world","leetcode"], chars = "welldonehoneyr"
    Output: 10
    Explanation: 
    The strings that can be formed are "hello" and "world" so the answer is 5 + 5 = 10.

**Note**:

1. `1 <= words.length <= 1000`
2. `1 <= words[i].length, chars.length <= 100`
3. All strings contain lowercase English letters only.


## Problem Summary


You are given a “vocabulary list” (string array) words and an “alphabet” (string) chars. If you can use the “letters” (characters) in chars to spell a certain “word” (string) in words, then we consider that you have mastered this word. Note: each time you spell a word, each letter in chars can only be used once. Return the sum of the lengths of all words in the vocabulary list words that you have mastered.

Constraints:

1. 1 <= words.length <= 1000
2. 1 <= words[i].length, chars.length <= 100
3. All strings contain only lowercase English letters



## Solution Approach

- Given a string array `words` and a string `chars`, output the total number of characters of the strings in `words` that can be formed by `chars`.
- Easy problem. First count the frequency of characters in `words` and `chars` respectively. Then, for each `word` in `words`, determine whether it can be formed by `chars`; if it can, add the length of this `word` to the final result.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

func countCharacters(words []string, chars string) int {
	count, res := make([]int, 26), 0
	for i := 0; i < len(chars); i++ {
		count[chars[i]-'a']++
	}
	for _, w := range words {
		if canBeFormed(w, count) {
			res += len(w)
		}
	}
	return res
}
func canBeFormed(w string, c []int) bool {
	count := make([]int, 26)
	for i := 0; i < len(w); i++ {
		count[w[i]-'a']++
		if count[w[i]-'a'] > c[w[i]-'a'] {
			return false
		}
	}
	return true
}

```
