# [1170. Compare Strings by Frequency of the Smallest Character](https://leetcode.com/problems/compare-strings-by-frequency-of-the-smallest-character/)

## Problem

Let's define a function `f(s)` over a non-empty string `s`, which calculates the frequency of the smallest character in `s`. For example, if `s = "dcce"` then `f(s) = 2` because the smallest character is `"c"` and its frequency is 2.

Now, given string arrays `queries` and `words`, return an integer array `answer`, where each `answer[i]` is the number of words such that `f(queries[i])` < `f(W)`, where `W` is a word in `words`.

**Example 1**:

    Input: queries = ["cbd"], words = ["zaaaz"]
    Output: [1]
    Explanation: On the first query we have f("cbd") = 1, f("zaaaz") = 3 so f("cbd") < f("zaaaz").

**Example 2**:

    Input: queries = ["bbb","cc"], words = ["a","aa","aaa","aaaa"]
    Output: [1,2]
    Explanation: On the first query only f("bbb") < f("aaaa"). On the second query both f("aaa") and f("aaaa") are both > f("cc").

**Constraints**:

- `1 <= queries.length <= 2000`
- `1 <= words.length <= 2000`
- `1 <= queries[i].length, words[i].length <= 10`
- `queries[i][j]`, `words[i][j]` are English lowercase letters.


## Problem Summary


Let's define a function f(s), where the input parameter s is a non-empty string; this function counts the frequency of the smallest letter in s  (by lexicographical order).

For example, if s = "dcce", then f(s) = 2, because the smallest letter is "c", and it appears 2 times.

Now, given two string arrays, the query table queries and the vocabulary table words, return an integer array answer as the result, where each answer[i] is the number of words satisfying f(queries[i]) < f(W), and W is a word in the vocabulary table words.

Notes:

- 1 <= queries.length <= 2000
- 1 <= words.length <= 2000
- 1 <= queries[i].length, words[i].length <= 10
- queries[i][j], words[i][j] are all lowercase English letters.




## Solution Approach

- Given 2 arrays, `queries` and `words`, for each `queries[i]`, count the number of `words[j]` in `words[j]` that satisfy the condition `f(queries[i]) < f(words[j])`. The definition of `f(string)` is the frequency of the lexicographically smallest letter in `string`.
- First, according to the problem statement, construct the `f()` function, compute the `f()` value for each `words[j]`, and then sort them. Then compute the `f()` value of each `queries[i]` in order. For each `f()` value, perform binary search among the `f()` values of `words[j]` to find the index `k` of a value greater than it; `n-k` is the number of elements whose `f()` value is greater than that of `queries[i]`. Output them to the result array in order.


## Code

```go

package leetcode

import "sort"

func numSmallerByFrequency(queries []string, words []string) []int {
	ws, res := make([]int, len(words)), make([]int, len(queries))
	for i, w := range words {
		ws[i] = countFunc(w)
	}
	sort.Ints(ws)
	for i, q := range queries {
		fq := countFunc(q)
		res[i] = len(words) - sort.Search(len(words), func(i int) bool { return fq < ws[i] })
	}
	return res
}

func countFunc(s string) int {
	count, i := [26]int{}, 0
	for _, b := range s {
		count[b-'a']++
	}
	for count[i] == 0 {
		i++
	}
	return count[i]
}

```
