# [1877. Minimize Maximum Pair Sum in Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimize-maximum-pair-sum-in-array/)


## Problem

The **pair sum** of a pair `(a,b)` is equal to `a + b`. The **maximum pair sum** is the largest **pair sum** in a list of pairs.

- For example, if we have pairs `(1,5)`, `(2,3)`, and `(4,4)`, the **maximum pair sum** would be `max(1+5, 2+3, 4+4) = max(6, 5, 8) = 8`.

Given an array `nums` of **even** length `n`, pair up the elements of `nums` into `n / 2` pairs such that:

- Each element of `nums` is in **exactly one** pair, and
- The **maximum pair sum** is **minimized**.

Return *the minimized **maximum pair sum** after optimally pairing up the elements*.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [3,5,2,3]
Output: 7
Explanation: The elements can be paired up into pairs (3,3) and (5,2).
The maximum pair sum is max(3+3, 5+2) = max(6, 7) = 7.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: nums = [3,5,4,2,4,6]
Output: 8
Explanation: The elements can be paired up into pairs (3,5), (4,4), and (6,2).
The maximum pair sum is max(3+5, 4+4, 6+2) = max(8, 8, 8) = 8.
```

**Constraints:**

- `n == nums.length`
- `2 <= n <= 105`
- `n` is **even**.
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 105`

## Problem Summary

The **pair sum** of a pair (a,b) is equal to a + b. The **maximum pair sum** is the largest pair sum in an array of pairs.

- For example, if we have pairs (1,5), (2,3), and (4,4), the **maximum pair sum** is max(1+5, 2+3, 4+4) = max(6, 5, 8) = 8.

Given an array nums of **even** length n, please divide the elements in nums into n / 2 pairs such that:

- Each element in nums is **exactly** in one pair, and
- The value of the **maximum pair sum** is **minimized**.

Return the minimized maximum pair sum under the optimal pairing scheme.

## Solution Approach

- To minimize the maximum pair sum, the largest element must be paired with the smallest element; otherwise, it definitely will not be minimal. After pairing the largest element with the smallest element, the remaining second-largest element should also be paired with the second-smallest element. Following this idea, first sort the array in ascending order, then take elements from the beginning and the end in order and pair them together. The maximum value among these pair sums is the answer.

## Code

```go
package leetcode

import "sort"

func minPairSum(nums []int) int {
	sort.Ints(nums)
	n, res := len(nums), 0
	for i, val := range nums[:n/2] {
		res = max(res, val+nums[n-1-i])
	}
	return res
}

func max(a, b int) int {
	if a > b {
		return a
	}
	return b
}
```
